README.md, before:

# Run docker-compose on GCE

I created this experiment because I wanted a way to run a managed docker-compose stack.

There are many services that will run a docker container for you and many services that will manage a k8s deployment for you, but sometimes one docker container is not enough and k8s is just way too much for a hobby project or internal tool.

This projects uses a GCE VM instance to host a docker-compose stack.

GCE allows you to [deploy a container][deploy-container] that it will always keep running.

## The Idea

Extend the `docker/compose` image by adding my own `docker-compose.yml` to it. I can then use that to run multiple docker containers masquerading as one docker container.

You can then run it with something like:

```sh
docker build -t example .
docker run --rm -ti \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  example up
```

## Basic compose file

`docker-compose.yml` runs three http services

It uses `traefik` to route you to each service based on the path you navigate to.

To test it locally run:

```sh
docker-compose up
```

Any URL starting with `http://localhost/server1` will route you to server1  
Any URL starting with `http://localhost/server2` will route you to server2  
Any other URL will route you to the default server

## Compose file with https, SNI and Let's Encrypt certificates

`docker-compose.advanced.yml` runs three https services

It uses `traefik` to route you to each service based on hostname

It uses Let's Encrypt to generate certificates for all three services

You set the default server's hostname with the environment variable `BASE_URL`

Any URL starting with `https://server1.${BASE_URL}` will route you to server1  
Any URL starting with `https://server2.${BASE_URL}` will route you to server2  
Any URL starting with `https://${BASE_URL}` route you to the default server

To test it locally run:

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose.advanced.yml up
```

By default the `BASE_URL` will be `localhost` and you will not be able to get Let's Encrypt certificates, but you can still test it.

## GCE Setup

This is GCE setup instructions for using the image from my basic `Dockerfile`

You will need to log in to GCP and create a project with billing enabled.

Then go to `Compute Engine -> VM Instances` and [create an instance][create-instance]

Choose the name, region, zone, machine type etc. that you prefer (or use the defaults)

![vm name and machine config](./screenshots/name-machine.png)

Tick `Deploy a container image to this VM instance.`

At `Container image` enter `ghcr.io/jedrivisser/gce-compose:1.0.0`

Click `Advanced container options` to see more options

Under `Command arguments` click `Add argument` and enter `up`

![container image and config](./screenshots/container-image.png)

Under `Volume mounts` select `Add volume` and add a volume mount with:

| Name        | Value                |
| ----------- | -------------------- |
| Volume type | Directory            |
| Mount path  | /var/run/docker.sock |
| Host path   | /var/run/docker.sock |
| Mode        | Read-only            |

![volume mount info](./screenshots/volume-mounts.png)

At firewall select `Allow HTTP traffic`

Then click `Create` and wait a few minutes for it to start up

![firewall settings and create](./screenshots/firewall-create.png)

That's it! You can now access your services on the external IP GCE assigned to you

![external ip](./screenshots/external-ip.png)

In my case `http://35.208.21.157/`, `http://35.208.21.157/server1` and `http://35.208.21.157/server2`

![basic setup results](./screenshots/result-basic.png)

## GCE Setup Advanced

> ⚠️ You will need to own a domain or have access to add DNS entries to one

This is GCE setup instructions for using the image from my `advanced.Dockerfile`

You will need to log in to GCP and create a project with billing enabled.

Then go to `Compute Engine -> VM Instances` and [create an instance][create-instance]

You will probably want a static external IP for this https setup so first go to the bottom of the instance setup page

Click `Management, security, disks, networking, sole tenancy` to see more options

Select the `Networking` tab and under `External IP` select `Create IP address`

![create ip](./screenshots/create-ip.png)

Give it some name and description that makes sense and select `Reserve`

![reserve ip](./screenshots/reserve-ip.png)

In my case I now have the IP `35.209.113.152`

![create ip after](./screenshots/create-ip-after.png)

Add 3 DNS entries that reference this IP, `${BASE_URL}`, `server1.${BASE_URL}` and `server2.${BASE_URL}`. My dns is managed by cloudflare so I added it there

![dns entries](./screenshots/dns.png)

Now lets go back to the top of the page and configure the VM

Choose the name, region, zone, machine type etc. that you prefer (or use the defaults)

Tick `Deploy a container image to this VM instance.`

At `Container image` enter `ghcr.io/jedrivisser/gce-compose/advanced:1.0.0`

Click `Advanced container options` to see more options

Under `Command arguments` click `Add argument` and enter `up`

Under `Environment variables` click `Add variable` and add your BASE_URL for this service, in my case:

| Name     | Value                      |
| -------- | -------------------------- |
| BASE_URL | gcecompose.jedrivisser.com |

Under `Volume mounts` select `Add volume` and add a volume mount with:

| Name        | Value                |
| ----------- | -------------------- |
| Volume type | Directory            |
| Mount path  | /var/run/docker.sock |
| Host path   | /var/run/docker.sock |
| Mode        | Read-only            |

At firewall select `Allow HTTP traffic` and `Allow HTTPS traffic`

Then click `Create` and wait a few minutes for it to start up

That's it! You can now access your services on the specified hostname

In my case `https://gcecompose.jedrivisser.com`, `https://server1.gcecompose.jedrivisser.com` and `https://server2.gcecompose.jedrivisser.com`

![advanced setup results](./screenshots/result-advanced.png)

## Limitations

There are probably more restrictions that I will add if I think of them / encounter them, but for now:

- The docker-compose file cannot use volume mounts for this usecase

[deploy-container]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/containers/deploying-containers
[create-instance]: https://console.cloud.google.com/compute/instancesAdd

Commit message:

Add port limitation and traefik warning

README.md, after:

# Run docker-compose on GCE

I created this experiment because I wanted a way to run a managed docker-compose stack.

There are many services that will run a docker container for you and many services that will manage a k8s deployment for you, but sometimes one docker container is not enough and k8s is just way too much for a hobby project or internal tool.

This projects uses a GCE VM instance to host a docker-compose stack.

GCE allows you to [deploy a container][deploy-container] that it will always keep running.

*Note:* This project uses [traefik][traefik-website] for a reverse proxy to expose multiple services on the same port. The examples I use can be run as is for a proof of concept, but to customize the examples for your own project you will need an understanding of how traefik works and it is not discussed in detail here

## The Idea

Extend the `docker/compose` image by adding my own `docker-compose.yml` to it. I can then use that to run multiple docker containers masquerading as one docker container.

You can then run it with something like:

```sh
docker build -t example .
docker run --rm -ti \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  example up
```

## Basic compose file

`docker-compose.yml` runs three http services

It uses [traefik][traefik-website] to route you to each service based on the path you navigate to.

To test it locally run:

```sh
docker-compose up
```

Any URL starting with `http://localhost/server1` will route you to server1  
Any URL starting with `http://localhost/server2` will route you to server2  
Any other URL will route you to the default server

## Compose file with https, SNI and Let's Encrypt certificates

`docker-compose.advanced.yml` runs three https services

It uses `traefik` to route you to each service based on hostname

It uses Let's Encrypt to generate certificates for all three services

You set the default server's hostname with the environment variable `BASE_URL`

Any URL starting with `https://server1.${BASE_URL}` will route you to server1  
Any URL starting with `https://server2.${BASE_URL}` will route you to server2  
Any URL starting with `https://${BASE_URL}` route you to the default server

To test it locally run:

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose.advanced.yml up
```

By default the `BASE_URL` will be `localhost` and you will not be able to get Let's Encrypt certificates, but you can still test it.

## GCE Setup

This is GCE setup instructions for using the image from my basic `Dockerfile`

You will need to log in to GCP and create a project with billing enabled.

Then go to `Compute Engine -> VM Instances` and [create an instance][create-instance]

Choose the name, region, zone, machine type etc. that you prefer (or use the defaults)

![vm name and machine config](./screenshots/name-machine.png)

Tick `Deploy a container image to this VM instance.`

At `Container image` enter `ghcr.io/jedrivisser/gce-compose:1.0.0`

Click `Advanced container options` to see more options

Under `Command arguments` click `Add argument` and enter `up`

![container image and config](./screenshots/container-image.png)

Under `Volume mounts` select `Add volume` and add a volume mount with:

| Name        | Value                |
| ----------- | -------------------- |
| Volume type | Directory            |
| Mount path  | /var/run/docker.sock |
| Host path   | /var/run/docker.sock |
| Mode        | Read-only            |

![volume mount info](./screenshots/volume-mounts.png)

At firewall select `Allow HTTP traffic`

Then click `Create` and wait a few minutes for it to start up

![firewall settings and create](./screenshots/firewall-create.png)

That's it! You can now access your services on the external IP GCE assigned to you

![external ip](./screenshots/external-ip.png)

In my case `http://35.208.21.157/`, `http://35.208.21.157/server1` and `http://35.208.21.157/server2`

![basic setup results](./screenshots/result-basic.png)

## GCE Setup Advanced

> ⚠️ You will need to own a domain or have access to add DNS entries to one

This is GCE setup instructions for using the image from my `advanced.Dockerfile`

You will need to log in to GCP and create a project with billing enabled.

Then go to `Compute Engine -> VM Instances` and [create an instance][create-instance]

You will probably want a static external IP for this https setup so first go to the bottom of the instance setup page

Click `Management, security, disks, networking, sole tenancy` to see more options

Select the `Networking` tab and under `External IP` select `Create IP address`

![create ip](./screenshots/create-ip.png)

Give it some name and description that makes sense and select `Reserve`

![reserve ip](./screenshots/reserve-ip.png)

In my case I now have the IP `35.209.113.152`

![create ip after](./screenshots/create-ip-after.png)

Add 3 DNS entries that reference this IP, `${BASE_URL}`, `server1.${BASE_URL}` and `server2.${BASE_URL}`. My dns is managed by cloudflare so I added it there

![dns entries](./screenshots/dns.png)

Now lets go back to the top of the page and configure the VM

Choose the name, region, zone, machine type etc. that you prefer (or use the defaults)

Tick `Deploy a container image to this VM instance.`

At `Container image` enter `ghcr.io/jedrivisser/gce-compose/advanced:1.0.0`

Click `Advanced container options` to see more options

Under `Command arguments` click `Add argument` and enter `up`

Under `Environment variables` click `Add variable` and add your BASE_URL for this service, in my case:

| Name     | Value                      |
| -------- | -------------------------- |
| BASE_URL | gcecompose.jedrivisser.com |

Under `Volume mounts` select `Add volume` and add a volume mount with:

| Name        | Value                |
| ----------- | -------------------- |
| Volume type | Directory            |
| Mount path  | /var/run/docker.sock |
| Host path   | /var/run/docker.sock |
| Mode        | Read-only            |

At firewall select `Allow HTTP traffic` and `Allow HTTPS traffic`

Then click `Create` and wait a few minutes for it to start up

That's it! You can now access your services on the specified hostname

In my case `https://gcecompose.jedrivisser.com`, `https://server1.gcecompose.jedrivisser.com` and `https://server2.gcecompose.jedrivisser.com`

![advanced setup results](./screenshots/result-advanced.png)

## Limitations

There are probably more restrictions that I will add if I think of them / encounter them, but for now:

- The docker-compose file cannot use volume mounts for this use case
- Only port 80 and 443 can be exposed

[traefik-website]: https://traefik.io/
[deploy-container]: https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/containers/deploying-containers
[create-instance]: https://console.cloud.google.com/compute/instancesAdd
